---
layout: post
title: Project 2 Blog Post
---

For this second project we were tasked with analyzing and modeling biking data from the Capital bikeshare system found [here](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Bike+Sharing+Dataset). First, we conducted an Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) on the data by creating contigency tables, summary tables, and visualizations to digest the data. From there we created 6 models (4 linear regression models, 1 random forest model, and 1 boosted tree model) on a training subset of the data to predict the total number of riders from the test subset of the data. We were able to compare the performance of the fit models on the test data by comparing their root mean square error (RMSE) values. The model with the lowest RMSE was determined to be the best fit, which in our case was the random forest model.

Overall, my partner and I were very effective in communicating and collaborating on this project. However, one thing I would do differently is to create our finalized datasets with our manipulated and calculated variables prior to conducting our EDA. We created an outline with all possible EDA touch points and then jumped right in which resulted in us manipulating the datasets in our respective chunks as oppose to in the beginning of the markdown file to draw from. While we had the code properly created for these analysis chunks we had to go back to update variable names. Once we did all of the cleaning, filtering, and manipulating of the datasets in the beginning we were able to easily call from them to create the remaining visuals and models.

The most difficult part of this project was to determine the proper format of the predictor variables to use in our EDA and modelling. For example, many of the predictor variables were normalized based on a simple conversion which we then had to unnormalize and convert to a comprehensible form. Once we had all predictors in the format we wanted it was then difficult to determine our candidate models. We overcame this by using a step function which chooses a model by AIC in a stepwise algorithm.

My biggest take-aways from this project are to communicate often and effectively with your partner, create an outline for all required parts with assignment to who should do that part, finalize your datasets as soon as possible, and conduct a diverse and encompassing EDA to learn as much as possible about the data.

The link to our project is [GitPages link](https://tylerapollard.github.io/ST558-Project-2/). \n
The link to our GitHub repository is [GitHub repo](https://github.com/TylerAPollard/ST558-Project-2).
