---
layout: post
title: First Blog Post
---

I think being a data scientist is about efficiently ingesting, transforming/manipulating, and analyzing large datasets to derive valuable insights. Data scientists work closely with statisticians and machine learning engineers to successfully provide these valuable insights and predictions. The major knowledge areas of data scientists include computer science, statistics, specific domain knowledge/subject expertise, and hacking skills. Data sceintists will use this knowledge to store and clean large amounts of data, explore data sets to identify valuable insights, build predictive models, and run data science projects from end to end. Data sceintists and statisticians are similiar in that they both collect, manipulate, and analyze data to answer a commonly aligned question. However, their means of data collection are different in that data scientists deal with much larger data so they spend a lot of their time dealing with large-scale data ingest, cleansing, and transformation. Another difference between data sceintists and statisticians is that statisiticains focus more on quanitifying the uncertainty of the outcome predicted and each predictor. Personally, I believe that I am a heavy cross between a statistician and data scientist. The day-to-day tasks associated with my job are almost entirely in the world of statistics, while my bigger iniative projects are much more associated with the tasks of a data sceintist. As a statisician I will create statistically rigorous test designs to run and then analyze the results to provide Senior leaders with important intel. For large scale tests that produce massive data sets I have to utilize data science principles to work with the data and provide essential insights.

