---
layout: post
title: Second Blog Post
---

Prior to entering this Master of Statistics program I obtained my Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering where I occasionally used MATLAB. I was first inroduced to programming, in general, with MATLAB. I learned the basics of if/then logic, function structure, and various plotting techniques. With a solid base in MATLAB, I then utilized it's matrix computational capabilities in my differential equations course and began to create my own functions and create detailed plots in my numerical methods mathematics course. Matlab is a more matrix based programming language which differs from R quite a bit. My experience with MATLAB only scratched the surface of the software's capabilities, therfore I would rate my proficiency as satisfactory.

I did not have any exposure to R until I began my position as a Mathematical Statistician at the Army Evaluation Center. All of my early knowledge and skills with R were self taught from online resources. I was able to learn the language due to my foundational programming knowledge from MATLAB. My skillset in R has been constantly evolving through project experience and various Shiny app development. I found R to be a very intuitional and much easier to pick up compared to MATLAB. The logical flow made more sense to me from both a reading and writing perspective. The massive depot of R packages that are available to the public provide a convenient way to easily install a bundle of functions that work together to accomplish a desired task. One aspect of MATLAB I found to be superior to R is coding within the console. MATLAB has the ability to store the previous result of whatever function you previously entered and build from that result without storing it as a variable, where R does not. I liked this capability because it functions similar to a standard calculator that I have been using since grade school. Overall, I find R to be a powerful tool that I enjoy using and am excited to continue to mature.
